---
layout: post
title: Textile 标记语言
category: blog
---

h2. <a href="http://swik.net/Textile" target="_blank">Textile</a>

Textile is a <a href="http://swik.net/web" target="_blank">web</a> text <a href="http://swik.net/markup-language" target="_blank">markup-language</a> that balances the strength of HTML with speed and ease of editing.

Unlike many wiki or other markup languages, Textile sticks closely to the semantics of <a href="http://swik.net/HTML" target="_blank">HTML</a>, headings for example are represented by 'h1', 'h2' for <code><h1></code> and <code><h2></code>. Attaching classes and ids to elements is also easy with Textile.

Textile is used by both blogs and a number of <a href="http://swik.net/wiki" target="_blank">wikis</a>, including the <a href="http://swik.net/Rails" target="_blank">Ruby on Rails</a> <a href="http://swik.net/instiki" target="_blank">instiki</a> powered wiki and by <a href="http://swik.net/SWiK" target="_blank">SWiK</a>. Textile does not make a provision for wiki links however, so various wikis have interpreted their own wiki link standards.

h3. Textile implementations

# <a href="http://swik.net/Redcloth" target="_blank">Redcloth</a> - Ruby （我的选择）
# <a href="http://swik.net/Text%3A%3ATextile" target="_blank">Text::Textile</a> - Perl
# <a href="http://swik.net/PyTextile" target="_blank">PyTextile</a> - Python
# <a href="http://swik.net/TextilePHP" target="_blank">TextilePHP</a> - PHP
# <a href="http://swik.net/Textile4J" target="_blank">Textile4J</a> - Java
# <a href="http://swik.net/JTextile" target="_blank">JTextile</a> - Java
# <a href="http://swik.net/Textile-J" target="_blank">Textile-J</a> - Java and <a href="http://swik.net/Eclipse" target="_blank">Eclipse</a>
# <a href="http://swik.net/PLextile" target="_blank">PLextile</a> - Java

h2. <a href="http://redcloth.org/" target="_blank">Redcloth</a>

RedCloth is a module for using <a href="http://swik.net/Textile" target="_blank">Textile</a> in <a href="http://swik.net/Ruby" target="_blank">Ruby</a>. <a href="http://swik.net/Textile" target="_blank">Textile</a> is a text format. RedCloth acts as a complete <a href="http://swik.net/Textile" target="_blank">Textile</a> processing engine.

因为 Jekyll 是基于 Ruby 的，故选择了同样基于 Ruby 的 RedCloth

h2. Step1

使用 RubyGems 安装：

{% highlight bash linenos %} 
$ gem install RedCloth
{% endhighlight %}

h2. Step2

在 _config.yml 中配置:

markdown: redcloth

h2. 使用方法

可以学习官方的 <a href="http://redcloth.org/hobix.com/textile/" target="_blank"> >>>Textile Quick Reference</a>

也可以使用轻量级的 <a href="http://www.textism.com/tools/textile/index.php" target="_blank" >>>Textism</a>