---
layout: post
title: Jekyll in Windows
category: blog
---

h2. Install "msysGit":http://msysgit.github.com/

h2. Download "Wget":http://users.ugent.be/~bpuype/wget/ for Windows

Wget("World Wide Web"和"Get"的结合)是一个在网络上进行下载的简单而强大的自由软件，此为 Windows版本，只需下载 wget.exe 文件后放在 C://windows 下即可在任何位置调用命令

h2. Install Ruby

Jekyll requires Ruby 1.9.1 or higher

* "github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/install":https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/install
* "rubyinstaller.org":http://rubyinstaller.org/

h2. Install Python

{% highlight bash linenos %}
$ cd /f
# setuptools does not work with Python 3.2
$ wget -nc python.org/ftp/python/2.7.2/python-2.7.2.msi
$ msiexec -qn -i python-2.7.2.amd64.msi ADDLOCAL="DefaultFeature"
{% endhighlight %}

h2. Install Pygments

{% highlight bash linenos %}
# Install setuptools 
$ wget -nc peak.telecommunity.com/dist/ez_setup.py
$ ./ez_setup.py
# Pygments
$ easy_install Pygments
{% endhighlight %}

h2. Install RedCloth

{% highlight bash linenos %}
$ gem install RedCloth
{% endhighlight %}

h2. Install Jekyll

{% highlight bash linenos %}
$ gem install jekyll
{% endhighlight %}

h2. Install GSL libraries

{% highlight bash linenos %}
$ wget 'ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gsl/gsl-1.15.tar.gz'
$ tar xf gsl*
$ cd gsl*
$ ./configure
# Warning, make takes about 7 min.
$ make
$ make install
{% endhighlight %}

* github.com/mojombo/jekyll/issues/376
* github.com/romanbsd/rb-gsl/issues/2

h2. Install Ruby/GSL

{% highlight bash linenos %}
# "gem install gsl" does not work. If you try it you are going to need to
# delete from "Ruby193/lib/ruby/gems/1.9.1/gems" before you can continue.
# rb-gsl.rubyforge.org version has to be patched to support GSL 1.15.
$ wget --content-disposition --no-check-certificate \
$ github.com/romanbsd/rb-gsl/tarball/master
$ tar xf romanbsd-rb-gsl*
$ cd romanbsd-rb-gsl*
$ ruby setup.rb config
$ ruby setup.rb setup
$ ruby setup.rb install
{% endhighlight %}

* github.com/romanbsd/rb-gsl