---
layout: post
title: CentOS+MySQL 相约日记
category: linux
---


h3. MySQL 我的最爱

h2. Step1 安装

{% highlight bash linenos %}
$ sudo yum install mysql mysql-server
{% endhighlight %}

h2. Step2 配置

{% highlight bash linenos %}
$ sudo vim /etc/my.cnf
{% endhighlight %}

<pre>
[mysqld]
datadir=/var/lib/mysql
socket=/var/lib/mysql/mysql.sock
user=mysql
# Disabling symbolic-links is recommended to prevent assorted security risks
symbolic-links=0
# 设置编码格式
default-character-set=utf8
# 设置不区分大小写
lower_case_table_names=1 

[mysqld_safe]
log-error=/var/log/mysqld.log
pid-file=/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.pid

[mysql]
# 设置编码格式
default-character-set=utf8
</pre>

h2. Step3 启动服务

{% highlight bash linenos %}
# 设置MySQL服务随系统启动自启动
$ sudo chkconfig mysqld on
# 确认MySQL自启动，如果2--5为on的状态就OK
$ sudo chkconfig --list mysqld
mysqld 0:off 1:off 2:on 3:on 4:on 5:on 6:off
# 启动MySQL服务
$ sudo /etc/rc.d/init.d/mysqld start
Initializing MySQL database:			[ OK ]
Starting MySQL:			[ OK ]
{% endhighlight %}

h2. Step4 环境设定

h2. Step4-1 为 MySQL 的 root 用户设置密码

MySQL 在刚刚被安装的时候，它的 root 用户是没有被设置密码的。首先来设置 MySQL 的 root 密码。有两种方法: 

h3. Step4-1-1

{% highlight bash linenos %}
$ mysql_secure_installation
{% endhighlight %}

<pre>
NOTE: RUNNING ALL PARTS OF THIS SCRIPT IS RECOMMENDED FOR ALL MySQLSERVERS IN PRODUCTION USE!  PLEASE READ EACH STEP CAREFULLY!
In order to log into MySQL to secure it, we'll need the current

password for the root user.  If you've just installed MySQL, and

you haven't set the root password yet, the password will be blank,

so you should just press enter here.

Enter current password for root (enter for none): <-- 输入系统root密码

OK, successfully used password, moving on...

Setting the root password ensures that nobody can log into the MySQL

root user without the proper authorisation.

Set root password? [Y/n] <-- ENTER

New password: <-- 你的MySQL root密码

Re-enter new password: <-- 你的MySQL root密码

Password updated successfully!

Reloading privilege tables..

... Success!

By default, a MySQL installation has an anonymous user, allowing anyone

to log into MySQL without having to have a user account created for

This is intended only for testing, and to make the installation
go a bit smoother.  You should remove them before moving into a

production environment.

Remove anonymous users? [Y/n] <-- ENTER

... Success!

Normally, root should only be allowed to connect from 'localhost'.  This

ensures that someone cannot guess at the root password from the network.

Disallow root login remotely? [Y/n] <-- ENTER

... Success!

By default, MySQL comes with a database named 'test' that anyone can

This is also intended only for testing, and should be removed
before moving into a production environment.

Remove test database and access to it? [Y/n] <-- ENTER

- Dropping test database...

... Success!

- Removing privileges on test database...

... Success!

Reloading the privilege tables will ensure that all changes made so far

will take effect immediately.

Reload privilege tables now? [Y/n] <-- ENTER

... Success!

Cleaning up...

All done!  If you've completed all of the above steps, your MySQL

installation should now be secure.

Thanks for using MySQL!
</pre>

